Extraordinary
Federal Republic of Nigeria
Official Gazette
No. 6
Lagos - 14th January, 2020
Vol. 107
Government Notice No. 11
The following is published as supplement to this Gazette :
Act No.
Short Title
Page
1
Finance Act, 2019
A1-24
Printed and Published by The Federal Government Printer. Lagos. Nigeria
FGP 30/12020/4,200
Annual Subscription from 1st January, 2020 is Local : N45,000.00 Overseas : N60.500.00 [Surface Mail]
N75,000.00 [Second Class Air Mail]. Present issue N2,000 per copy. Subscribers who wish to obtain Gazette
after 1st January should apply to the Federal Government Printer, Lagos for amended Subscriptions..
Scanned with CamScanner
A3
FINANCE ACT, 2019
Act No. 1
ANACT TO AMEND THE COMPANIES INCOME TAX Act, CAP C21,VALL'E ADDED TAX
ACT, CAP. VI, CUSTOMS AND ENCISE TARIFF, ETC. (CONSOLIDATION) Act, CAP. C49,
PERSONAL INCOME TAXACT, CAP. P8, CAPITAL GAINS TAX Act, CAP. C1, STAMP DUTIES
"ACT, CAP. S8, PETROLEUM PROFIT TAX ACT, CAP. P13, LAWS OF THE FEDERATION OF
NIGERIA, 2004 TO PROVIDE FOR THE REVIEW OF TAX PROVISIONS AND MAKE THEM MORE
RESPONSIVÉ TO TAX REFORM ; AND FOR RELATED MATTERS.
[13th Day of January, 2020]
Commence-
ment.
ENACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria-
1. The Companies Income Tax Act, Cap C21, Value Added Tax Act, Cap.
Amendment
VI, Customs and Excise Tariff, Etc. (Consolidation) Act, Cap. C49, Personal
of Cap. C21,
Income Tax Act, Cap. P8, Capital Gains Tax Act, Cap. CI, Stamp Duties Act,
Cap. VI.
Cap. S8, Petroleum Profit Tax Act, Cap. P13, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria,
Cap. C49,
2004 are amended as set out in this Act.
Cap. P8.
Cap. CI,
Cap. S8 and
PART I-COMPANIES INCOME TAX ACT
Cap. P13,
LFN, 2004.
2. Section 9 of the Companies Income Tax Act (CITA) is amended-
Amendment
of section 9.
(a) in subsection (1)-
(i) by deleting after the word, "Nigeria", in line 3, the words, "in respect"
and inserting the words, "that are not subject to tax under the Capital Gains
Tax Act, Petroleum Profits Tax Act and Personal Income Tax Act, such
profits shall include",
(ii) by inserting after paragraph (c), a new paragraph "(d)"-
"(d) for the purposes of this Act-
(i) interest includes compensating payments received by a
borrower from its approved agent or a lender in a Regulated
Securities Lending Transaction provided that the underlying
transaction giving rise to the compensating payment is a receipt of
interest by a lender on the collateral it received from its approved
agent or a borrower in a Regulated Securities Exchange Transaction,
(ii) dividend includes compensating payments received by a
lender from its approved agent or borrower in a Regulated Securities
Lending Transaction if the underlying transaction giving rise to the
compensating payment is a receipt of dividends by a borrower on
any shares or securities received from its approved agent or a
lender in a Regulated Securities Lending Transaction";
(b) in paragraph (g), by inserting a "proviso" after the word, "bonds", in
line
"Provided that for the purpose of this section, securities or shares shall
not be deemed to be disposed of by a lender, borrower or approved agent
Scanned with CamScanner
Finance Act, 2019
2020 No. 1
A4
a borrower, approved agent and or subsequently lender if such returned securities by
or
shares are in a Regulated Securities Lending "(h)"-
or acquired transferred by from a lender Transaction";
a
(c) borrower inserting after paragraph (g), a new paragraph
"(h) by profits from securities lending other than compensating payments
the lender or borrower."
3. to Substitute for section 10 of CITA, a new section "10"-
Substitution
for section
10.
shall be displayed and individuals and on every document, statement, returns, the audited
10.-(1) by the company on all business other
Every company shall have a tax identification transactions number (TIN), with which
Inland account Revenue Service, Ministries and all Government Agencies.
companies and correspondence with revenue authorities, including Federal
shall bank require account or, in the case of an account already opened TIN
(2) Every all companies to provide their TIN as a precondition within opening three
person engaged in banking or other financial services for in Nigeria
provided by all companies as a precondition for the continued operation
months a of the passage of this Act, the bank shall require such to be of
their bank accounts."
Amendment
4. Section 13 of CITA is amended-
of section
13.
(a) in subsection (2)-
(i) by inserting after the word, "from", in line 2, the words, or taxable
in",
(ii) by inserting after paragraph (b), a new paragraph "(c)", and
renumbering the subsection appropriately-
"(c) if it transmits, emits or receives signals, sounds, messages,
images or data of any kind by cable, radio, electromagnetic systems or
any other electronic or wireless apparatus to Nigeria in respect of any
activity, including electronic commerce, application store, high
frequency trading, electronic data storage, online adverts, participative
network platform, online payments and so on, to the extent that the
company has significant economic presence in Nigeria and profit can
be attributable to such activity";
(b) by inserting after paragraph (d),a new paragraph "(e)"-
"(e) if the trade or business comprises the furnishing of technical,
management, consultancy or professional services outside of Nigeria to a
person resident in Nigeria to the extent that the company has significant
economic presence in Nigeria :
Provided that the withholding tax applicable to income under this
paragraph shall be the final tax on the income of a non-resident recipient
who does not otherwise fall within the scope of subsection (2) (a)-(e)."
Scanned with CamScanner
